# Wonderkids to Watch: Olympics Edition

### A focused look at some of the underrated prospects going into the Paris Olympics Men’s Football Competition

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/Rings.jpeg)

With the Paris Olympics set to start on Friday, July 26th, some of the
world’s best athletes are getting ready to compete in a vast array of
events over the 2 week span. Men’s football is a little different from
the other sports, as the competition is only open to u23 teams. This
allows some of the brightest young talents in world football to showcase
their abilities on a global stage. With he group stage games set to
start early on Wednesday, July 24th, the young talents will take the
field for the first time looking to set the tournament on fire. Some big
names such as Julian Alvarez of Argentina and Michael Olise of France
are expected to play important roles for their teams, just as they
already do for some of the best clubs in the world week in and week out.
However, there are some other under-the-radar prospects that look set to
have a breakout tournament. Here are a few names that I believe you
should watch out for:

## Claudio Echeverri - 18yr Attacker, Argentina (Club: Manchester City)

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/Claudio.jpeg)

Some of you may have heard of Claudio Echeverri if you keep up with the
landscape of South American football. Echeverri is just 18 years old,
but it widely regarded as one of the best young talents Argentina has to
offer. The young phenom will be making the jump to Manchester City in
2025 after he finishes his season at River Plate. The young attacking
midfielder has made all 5 starts for River Plate this season and has
scored 1 goal.

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/CE.png)

Echeverri showcases an extreme confidence in his abilities. Unafraid to
take the burden that comes with the Argentine number 10 shirt, he plays
centrally but often takes up positions on the left hand side of the
field. He is extremely adept in tight spaces as he keeps his touches
close and uses his agility to create space and throw off defenders.
Echeverri loves to take his defenders on, using close control and body
feints to halt defenders before exploding past them. He is a master at
progressing the ball, often by dribbling but he’s also got a great pass
on him. His passing stats are fantastic as he is in the 90th percentile
or greater for progressive passes, passes completed, and passes into the
final third. In the box he has a great awareness of where the goal is
and how he can best help his team score, not just firing shots. He’s
developed a trademark low-curled shot into the bottom right corner of
the goal. He is also a tenacious and willing defender.As he continues to
mature, I would like to see him develop his left foot to get it more
involved in his dribbling, but this should come naturally as he ages. He
could also benefit from better scanning practices so he could play
quicker off the turn. He often receives the ball and doesn’t know where
the defenders are near him. At this level he can use his supreme
dribbling ability to lose his defenders, but this tournament should be a
good test of his abilities. His overall game is really good, he will
just need some coaching that Manchester City will no doubt provide.

Claudio Echeverri is a fantastic prospect that should play a role in
Argentina’s Olympic campaign. He and Thiago Almada could do some serious
damage together in behind Julian Alvarez. Look for Echeverri to
introduce himself to the tournament early as Argentina look to replicate
what a young Sergio Aguero and Leonel Messi did in Beijing 16 years ago.

## Désiré Doué - 19yr Attacker - France (Club: Stade Rennais)

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/Desire.webp)

Désiré Doué of the tournament hosts is another prolific attacker looking
to make a name for himself at this tournament. Just 19 years of age, he
was a big part of Rennes’s success last season, notching 4 goals and 4
assists in his second senior campaign, making 31 league appearances.
Doué is linked to a lot of big clubs around Europe, between Arsenal,
PSG, and most strongly Bayern Munich. If you don’t know this guy yet,
get ready to learn sooner rather than later.

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/DD.png)

There is a reason why this guy is on a lot of big clubs’ shortlist this
summer. Some of the reason that some of his stats don’t jump out is that
he plays a sort of hybrid midfield, attacking midfield role. He’s often
deep to help the defense, but is a key player in attack. I chose to
compare him to attacking midfielders and wingers because I believe that
is where he does most of his work. It’s also worth noting that Doué is
being compared to players in Europe’s top five leagues, while the likes
of Echerverri is compared to weaker leagues in the rest of the world.
Doué is a very interesting player as he often pops up on the left hand
side and drives at defenders like a winger, but plays largely as a
midfielder and possess a lot of midfield traits. His dribbling ability
is what jumps out first. Their is a strength and calmness about the way
he dribbles that is rare for a player his age. He can easily hold off
would-be tacklers and makes it look easy, dribbling like a winger. He
also has a great understanding of space and how to use it to get past
defenders. His passing ability reflects that of a midfielder, as he’s
got many different passes in his locker. He can switch a ball, he can
play between the lines, he can play on the turn, and more. I would like
to see him increase his G/A output. He’s made a lot of appearances for
Rennes and doesn’t have as many G/A as his skill level suggests he
should.

The talent level in the French side is unbelievable and coach Thierry
Henry has a lot of options. Should Désiré Doué get his chance in the
side, I expect him to take it and not look back. As one fo the heavy
favorites in this tournament, look for Désiré Doué to emerge amongst the
French stars.

## Caleb Wiley - 19yr Fullback - United States (Club: Chelsea)

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/Caleb.jpeg)

As an American myself, Caleb Wiley has been on my radar for a while, and
this tournament opportunity could see him added to the watch list of
many others across Europe. The 19 year old has become a key player for
Atlanta United, making 21 appearances for them so far this season. Since
I began this report, Wiley is headed across the pond and has completed a
move to Chelsea, where he will likely be loaned out. No doubt Chelsea
fans will have their eyes on him while he looks to make his mark in
Paris.

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/CW.png)

Atlanta United most often play in a 5-back setup, with Wiley deployed as
a wingback. He is not short on confidence, as he can often be seen
bombing forward and looking to pose a threat in attack. He has a great
understanding of his role, as he doesn’t go forward too often and is
rarely caught out by counters. He also tucks into the box more centrally
when it is time to do so when the other side of the field is deep in the
opponents territory. For a young fullback, Wiley is quite good with both
feet and possesses solid technical ability. He’s a very lengthy runner,
so he looks to attack space with long runs and big touches. Defensively,
Wiley has long legs and uses them to his advantage when tackling
attackers, but he doesn’t tackle often or efficiently. As a lot of young
defenders do, he will need to improve his aerial ability and back post
marking, but he has all the tools to be a successful attacking fullback
at the next level.

With the USA unfortunately drawn into the same group as France, it is
unclear how long their tournament will last, but Wiley will have an
important role in how successful they are. Before he inevitably ends up
in Strasbourg as part of the Chelsea loan army, i expect some great
performances from him at this tournament.

## Diego Gomez - 21yr Central Midfielder - Paraguay (Club: Inter Miami)

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/Diego.webp)

A lot of you may have caught glimpses of this kid while watching his
teammate Leonel Messi in the MLS, but Diego Gomez is poised to step out
into the limelight in this tournament. Off to an extremely hot start in
the MLS this season, the 21 year old midfielder has clearly benefited
from playing with the likes of Busquets in midfield. He’s made 16
appearances so far, racking up 4 goals and 3 asssists, and has overcome
a lengthy ankle injury this season. He is also a target for the likes of
West Ham and Brighton in the Premier League. Paraguay has sent a strong
team to Paris, and as they look to make some noise in Paris, Diego Gomez
will be at the heart of their efforts to do so.

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/DG.png)

The first thing you notice when watching Gomez is his work rate. In or
out of possession he’s everywhere across the pitch. Defensively, he’s a
great 1v1 defender and makes a lot of tackles. Offensively I wouldn’t
say he’s an amazing dribbler, but he can attack space when it’s
presented to him, and he can ride challenges with good strength. He
possesses a very incisive through ball and can play between the defense,
but he’s not a high volume passer at Inter Miami. Because of his
workrate, he’s very versatile and Miami will line him up at winger
because he has a nose for goal. You can see that even though his pass
completion is low (not a statistic I care for), he is in the 99th
percentile for goal creating actions, which is a key part of any team.
he is also a low volume passer with so many creators in this team, but
it doesn’t mean he doesn’t have an impact. I can’t say enough good
things about his work rate. He and another American Olympian Benjamin
Cremaschi do the work for 3 people in Miami’s midfield so that Busquets
and Messi don’t have to. He definitely needs some refinement when it
comes to close dribbling and tight spaces, but he’s got a lot of tools
that are desirable to not only coaches, but teammates as well.

Gomez should be a key player for Paraguay as they look for a better
showing than the senior team managed at Copa America. There are a lot of
good players in the squad and this might be a team to watch, and Gomez
will look to be a big part of the team and make a name for himself on
the global stage.

## Oscar Gloukh - 20yr Attacking Midfielder - Israel (Club: RB Salzburg)

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/Oscar.webp)

Next up is Oscar Gloukh who has been part of a prolific Israeli youth
system that always seems to be over-achieving in tournaments. The 20
year-old is coming off of a productive season in the Austrian Bundesliga
for Austrian giants RB Salzburg, where he registered 9 goals and 13
assists. Salzburg is known for producing some great talent, and Gloukh
may just be next up and he will be looking to prove it in Paris.

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/OG.png)

Gloukh is a finesse player at attacking midfield. He won’t wow you with
his physical traits or his pace, but what he will do is make things
happen with his intelligence. He knows exactly where the space is and
how to exploit it with a pass or a dribble. His stats don’t really jump
out at you, which I was a little surprised about, but make no mistake he
is an impact player. Technically, he’s very gifted with both feet. He is
a master of the final action, whether it be a shot to score or a pass to
his teammate, Gloukh has a nose for the goal, and that shows in his
output. His dribbling is unique, as he keeps the ball close and is a
smaller player, but his movements are very subtle and hard for defenders
to predict. He shifts the ball from left to right without actually
changing course that much, making him an efficient ball carrier. His
through balls are excellent, picking the right gap to play between and
get his teammates through on goal. He’s also great on the turn and
playing quick passes before he’s closed down. His overall game is very
refined and his technique is brilliant, making him an intriguing
prospect.

Gloukh played a major role in RB Salzburg’s success this season and his
attention now turn to Israel and the Olympics. In 2023 Israel u21 made
the u21 Euros semifinal with Gloukh playing a key role. He will be one
to watch in Paris as he will have the keys to Israel’s tournament run.

Some people question why the Olympics is a u23 tournament, but
personally I feel it is a great showcase for some young players. This
year’s Olympics features a wide array of talents from every region
across the globe that will be featured in a way that they would not
normally get the chance to otherwise. With the summer transfer window
taking place, many clubs and fans will have their eye on this
tournament. While the more established players such as the likes of
Michael Olise, Julian Alvarez, Pau Cubarsi, and Achraf Hakimi are
expected to make their mark, these more under the radar prospects should
not go overlooked. I expect all of the to have a great tournament before
they go on to do amazing things at the club level.

![](/Users/aidandowd/Desktop/WtW/Brazil.jpeg)

## 
